Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to get text data, all right.
So in this next year, we are going to get data from a text file.
And if I open up the text file, we just have hey there in that file.
And that is in the same directory as our JavaScript file.
All right.
And this.
And data is going to be local data, which means it is present in our own computer.
All right.
So so in this picture, we are not we are not going to be communicating with an API endpoint.
Rather, we are going to be communicating with a local fire.
All right.
But nonetheless, an EPA request is made in four easy steps.
I have outlined the steps here so it is easier for us to know what we are going to do.
First, we are going to instantiate in New York City our object to create the request or request.
Where is the T request set up?
This three decide what to do with the data received so far fetched, which is the new fancy term if
the request is successful and for send the request.
So let's go ahead and let's do that.
But how do I want to how do I want to do this is whenever I click on this button.
I want to, I want to.
Oops.
Where did that go.
I want to grab the content of the text file and I want to print it in this paragraph, I want to just
put it inside this paragraph.
So first things first.
Let's go ahead and grab the button.
So I'm just going to say document, query selector and we are going to say button.
I'm going to copy it down.
I'm going to grab our paragraph as well.
Para and it is going to be documented that query like Turpie now when when the button is collect.
I want to run a function and that function is going to grab the data from the text file, so it is the
text data.
All right.
Now, these are not the first steps.
The first steps are going to be here.
That is an EPA request.
This is not an EPA request.
We have we have just set up the the event that we want to do, the event that we want to make this EPA
request.
All right.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to say function text data and what do I want to do inside this
function?
Inside this function, I want to make and request what are the steps?
There are four easy steps in there.
So step number one, initiate instantiate a new X, H.R. object.
So we are going to say consed new X h.e.r LBG.
I could say I object or could say just or I could just say Newark's HRR, right?
So I'm going to say new.
You know what the new keyword is?
I'm not going to go over this one more time.
I'm going to say Zemo HTP request and that's it.
And if I can still log this new XIKAR, there are some properties and methods available to us whenever
we instantiate an annex char object.
These are the methods we will be interested more in the reddest state and the response text and I think
that's going to be it.
We are we will we might have we might use some other ones as well.
All right.
So now we know what the object is going to give us.
Now the first step is done.
And you know what?
Because this is advanced, I don't need to leave it there.
I'm just going to say step one.
So this is step one is done and then the next step are going to create the request.
So New York's H.R. dot open.
Whenever I say dot open there, it is going to set their request method requests, YORO and Synchronoss
FLAC.
All right.
So what is the request method?
The request method is going to be get.
We know what getas get is going to retrieve information or retrieve data again.
If you want to go over that get had post.
But the most common ones that are included there.
OK, I've given you the I have provided you with them in the Ajax Lecture.
And the second is the the request you are in this case it is local.
So I'm just going to say five dot info dot 60, as with any other
source that you would use.
OK, this this is the source.
So we are in the same directory.
I'm just going to provide the name and it is going to grab it.
And finally, we are going to say true, because if you say false, then the code is going to be async.
Sorry, the code is going to be synchronous, not async.
When you say true, it means the code is going to run asynchronously and we do want it to run asynchronously.
So there we go.
Step number two is done.
OK, so let's go on to step number three, so decide what to do with the data received or fetched if
the request is successful.
So we do have an effect there, right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say new say to our dot onload.
Now, this onload is actually going to grab a function expression, right?
So I'm going to pass in a function expression and this is going to be called when we get the data and
when the request is successful.
So I'm going to say F.
This that status, we know the status of the TTP and if it is 200, then we are going to do something.
Now, what the this keyword in this case is going to refer to?
All right.
So we know we know how this keyboard works.
That's why we studied the this keyword before actually coming to asynchronous programming, because
the this key word is used a lot and is async code.
All right.
And whenever it is used, you should know what it is pointing at.
So this this we need to go to the context of this function.
Where is this function called?
The function is called within the text data function.
So whenever we call the text data function, it is going to call this function.
So here is the call site.
The call side of this is the new X download, although this is actually calling the function.
What is the new XIKAR?
It is and TTP request that we are setting up.
So this the status actually refers to the new HTTP request status that we are just setting it up.
And when the status is set up, why do I want to do so, we can go ahead and from here we can see that
we have our response text.
So what I'm going to do as from right here, I'm going to grab a response text and I'm going to log
it to the council, that log response text.
But I'm going to say this response text.
All right.
So now the object is instantiated, the request is set up.
And this is step this is step number three.
We know what we want to do when we get the data.
And after this, the final step, send the request.
So new X XIKAR dot sent, save it.
So when I click on it, we get hey there.
See.
So where is it coming from.
The hey there is going to be coming from ok.
I am, I am just a t xda file.
Save it, and now I click, click on it, it says that so we know what we are just constantly we are
just logging it to the console.
What we can do is we can log to the console, the this keyword as well.
And the this keyword is going to be pointing at this XIKAR object.
So if I save it and if I click on it, you can see that we get the same access to our object.
But in this case, it is not an empty object.
Why?
Because we have provided it.
We have set up we have set up the request we have we know what we want to do with it and we have send
that request.
So now we can see that we have response text right here.
You can see that the status is 200.
When the status is 200, it means that if I come back to here, when the status is 200, this is a successful
response.
That's why we are going to say we are going to look for a status of two 200.
Now, this if statement that we have done here, it is lacking another very, very important part.
And that is the aready state, which is related to the XIKAR object, which we are going to cover later,
but for now, what I wanted to do is I just wanted to show you how you can get local data, data from
a text.
Now, if you want to get data, if you want to grab data for a name from an API endpoint, just go ahead
and put the API endpoint in here and click and just run this or click this code.
It is going to grab it.
It doesn't matter.
The idea is the same.
The implementation could be like a little bit different.
But this idea of these four steps, it is going to apply whenever you are using where you're doing your
requests, using the this extra object.
If you're doing that, then it is going to be the same.
So and I'm just going to provide step number four.
So that's it for this lecture in the next lecture.
What we are going to do as we know how we can get the text data and there we go.
Oh, there is one more thing missing.
I'm sorry.
And at the start of this lecture, I told you when I click on it, I want to print it to the Web page.
I want to I want to print it there.
So I'm just going to come and those ones out and I'm going to come.
I'm going to leave them here because they are critical.
Let's bring that up.
So what I want to do here is I'm going to grab my paragraph and I'm going to say inner text should be
equal to what should be equal to this response text.
Let's save it.
And now when I click it, it says I'm just a text file hater.
And now keep in mind that this request is asynchronous.
This is not synchronous.
So the way that I am loading this, you can see that this I think this is an icon of the globe.
Yeah, it is the globe.
So when I reload, you can see that it is flashing.
It's flickering.
Right.
But when I click on this get info, it doesn't flash.
It doesn't flicker.
It means that the page is not reloaded.
This is the good thing about asynchronous without reloading the page, which takes a lot of time and
reloading everything.
And maybe there are like 10000 requests on that page and it takes a lot of time, like a minute for
slower connections like myself.
But when you do asynchronous, when you just click, you can see the page doesn't reload, see?
The icon doesn't flicker, so click doesn't flicker, but if I reload, it flickers, see for a split
second.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.